---
layout: page
title: Theme for 2024
added: 2023-12-30
updated: 2024-08-30
---

Off the back of [a review of the year](/thinking/2023-year-in-review/), and some thinking about [my bigger picture philosophy](/thinking/my-philosophy/), I scribbled a big buncha notes.

<nav aria-label="Sections" markdown="1">
Jump to: [Practice](#practice); [Philosophy](#philosophy); [Tracker](#tracker): [January](#january); [February](#february); [March](#march); [April](#april); [May](#may); [June](#june); [July](#july); [August](#august); [September](#september); [October](#october); [November](#november); [December](#december).
</nav>

## Practice

My theme for 2024 is going to (try and) be **rest**.

> "I well get more rest, be more at rest, and leave the rest aside."

Resting and relaxing is something I have not been doing very well during 2023.

Some things that I find relaxing:

<div id="mcswarm" class="boxout">
<p>meditating, cooking, sketching, walking, arting, reading, music(k?)ing.</p>
</div>

I know that part of me does want to rest, to relax. I find "close your eyes" instructions in a meditation session very easy, quick, pleasing. I often find I gently resist the "open your eyes" instructions at the end of a session: I want to stay sitting there, eyes closed, resting and relaxing.

## Philosophy

I keep finding myself being drawn back to **Zen** and **Daoism**. I'm going to dig more deeply into Zen this year, leaning more towards it than psychology or philosophy or nonduality or Buddhism more broadly.

I'll be focusing on (what I will call pig) Zen:

<div class="boxout" markdown="1">
- Health (engaging and unifying body and mind);
- Art (creating in a wholehearted, flow, state);
- Mindfulness (the sacredness of ordinary, everyday, acts).
</div>

I'm keeping notes from reading at [thinking/Zen](/thinking/zen/).

## Tracker

A short record of what I've done, and what I plan to do next.

I'm aiming for a specific topic for each month, to keep myself focused.

### January

- Rest
	- Trying longer sits.
- Health: flexibility.
	- Wing Chun stretches.
- Art: music.
	- Making longer, ambient-style, bits of music.
- Mindfulness: sacredness of the everyday.
	- Studying the basics of Zen: a bunch of introduction, instruction, and overview books.
		- Zazen form: sit like a mountain; open eyes, downcast gaze.
	- Cleaning up the kitchen immediately after cooking, before eating.
	- Making the bed immediately after getting up.

#### January end of month check-in

I did well with these, apart from the Art / music. I only made one track. I had a fun doing it, though, so I'm going to carry this over to February.

I've enjoyed studying and implementing Zen things. I have a handful more books that are introduction-like, so I'm going to carry this over to February too.

### February

- Rest
	- Learning and cooking some new recipes.
- Health
	- More frequent walking, preferably in nature.
	- Wing Chun exercises.
	- Running.
- Art
	- Making longer, ambient-style, bits of music.
	- Sketching people, especially countours of groups, outlines.
- Mindfulness
	- Continue studying (and immediately putting into practice) the basics of Zen.
	- Being more mindful at work.

#### February end of month check-in

I didn't do so well this month. I didn't do any sketching, and only made one music track. I managed to read a few books, though, including a couple of good Zen ones. I started, and am still, running and am enjoying it a lot.

I'm going to try and be more specific with some of March goals. I often find that helps.

### March

- Rest
	- Book a week off in March or April.
	- Start a (re)readthrough of Iain M. Banks' Culture books.
- Health
	- Keep on running, three times a week.
	- ~~Keep up Wing Chun exercises, four times a week.~~
- Art
	- Make four longer, ambient-style, bits of music.
	- ~~Join one Urban Sketchers meetup.~~
- Mindfulness
	- Work through [Henry Shukman's The Way app](https://www.thewayapp.com/).
	- Read a bunch of Thich Nhat Hanh books.
	- ~~Do one seaside sit each weekend.~~

#### March end of month check-in

A bit mixed, but I'm happy with how it went. In particular, I got a lot from focusing on Thich Nhat Hanh books and (re)discovering how he talks about interbeing.

### April

April is a bit of a rest between jobs, and taking [another spiral around my philosophy](/thinking/my-philosophy-another-spiral/).

- **Rest:** nature and (the) Culture
	- More nature into daily routines
	- ✔ Continue (re)readthrough of Iain M. Banks' Culture books
- **Health:** running and squatting
	- ✔ Continue running
	- ✔ Restart Wing Chun exercises, four times a week
- **Art:** rivers and rivulets
	- ~~Sketch people and crowds~~
	- ~~Sketch rows of shops~~
	- ✔ [Portrait-orientation rocks-in-rivers brush strokes](/art/)
		- ✔ Including reading [At the Sea's Edge](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6998097-at-the-sea-s-edge), [Design for good acoustics](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15202278-design-for-good-acoustics-and-noise-control), and revisiting [Sensitive Chaos](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44008825-sensitive-chaos).
- **Mindfulness:** retreats and oneness
	- ✔ One day solo retreat
	- ✔ One day [One Mindful Breath Retreat](https://onemindfulbreath.substack.com/p/autumn-meditation-retreat)
	- ✔ Revisit [my philosophy](/thinking/my-philosophy/) and my [Applied Philosophy for 2024](/thinking/applied-philosophy-for-2024/), in particular with updates from Zen.
	- Reading
		- ✔ [The Sutra of Hui-neng, Grand Master of Zen: With Hui-neng's Commentary on the Diamond Sutra](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Sutra-Hui-neng-Grand-Master-Zen-ebook/dp/B00B1EEYGU)
		- ✔ [Kensho: Heart of Zen](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B00GGPPA9E)
		- ✔ [Painting the Sidewalk with Water: Talks and Dialogs about Nonduality](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Painting-Sidewalk-Water-Dialogs-Nonduality-ebook/dp/B0BWFTNXBX/) by Joan Tollifson
		- ~~[Good Life: A Zen Precepts Retreat with Cheri Huber](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1614592.Good_Life) (Paperback)~~
		- ~~[Opening to Oneness: A Practical and Philosophical Guide to the Zen Precepts](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Opening-Oneness-Practical-Philosophical-Precepts-ebook/dp/B0B45CXNC1/) by Nancy Mujo Baker~~
		- ~~[Diamond That Cuts Through Illusion](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B004X6FQWE) by Thich Nhat Hanh~~
	- ✔ Revisit [The Direct Approach on the Waking Up app](https://app.wakingup.com/practice/the-direct-approach) (16 Sessions, 2h 31m)
- **Work**: lightning and busting
	- ✔ Prepare lightning talk (April)
	- Prepare one day workshop (June)

#### April end of month check-in

Pretty good! Weekend and a week away were both really good for resting. Did lots of reading for fun. Health went well. I did a little bit of sketching and arting and enjoyed it. Did lots of mindfulness things: a solo and a group retreat; revisited my philosophy, read some great books. Prepared and gave a lightning talk, did some good work on the one day workshop. Started a new job that's fully remote work; keeping an eye on myself with that.

### May

First month a new job, so I'm going to aim low. I know from experience that the first few weeks, often months, is really exhausting.

- **Rest**
	- ✔ Continue (re)readthrough of Iain M. Banks' Culture books
- **Health**
	- ✖ Running
	- ✖ Wing Chun exercises
	- Think about "seasonal exercising"
- **Art**
	- Urban Sketchpomorphisation. Do some more Urban Sketching, but anthropomorphise stuff (like the old ones from [August](/art/2022-08-anthropomorphising/) and [September](/art/2022-09-anthropomorphising/) last year). More illustrate-y style.
	- A few pages of sketches of Capybaras.
	- Practice sketching people.
		- ✔ Revisit "Drawn on the way", "Tate: Sketch Club Urban Drawing", "The Complete Urban Sketching Companion"
			- ✔ Look for more people and figure drawing books. ("5-minute Sketching: People")
		- Read, do exercises from [5-minute Sketching: People](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29598704-5-minute-sketching----people).
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ Start draft of a [Spectrum of Awareness](/thinking/the-spectrum-of-awareness/) session for OMB.
	- ✔ Listen to "Explore Nonduality" playlist on Waking Up (15 sessions, 6h)
	- ✔ Revisit (remixing) Precepts.
		- ✔ Read [Good Life: A Zen Precepts Retreat with Cheri Huber](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1614592.Good_Life) (Paperback).
		- ✔ [Opening to Oneness: A Practical and Philosophical Guide to the Zen Precepts](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Opening-Oneness-Practical-Philosophical-Precepts-ebook/dp/B0B45CXNC1/) by Nancy Mujo Baker
	- ✔ Revisit [The Koan Way series on Waking Up](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/pack/PK2BWQV?code=SC541514D&share_id=F3EF9664&source=content%20share)
	- More nature into daily routines.
	- ✔ Final week of May: rather start a new Dharma book, get back into longer silent sits. 20m in the morning, 30m (or longer) in the evening.
- **Work**
	- ✔ Settle into new job.
	- Prepare one day workshop (June).

#### May end of month check-in

**Rest** went well. I found it fairly easy to relax. Maybe because I'm tired.

**Health** was good, but I stopped running when the weather snapped cold, and then went a bit hibernate-y. That was okay for a few weeks, but I want to get back into it, do more than just big walks.

**Art** was very patchy. Very little in the way of drawing or music. That's okay.

**Mindfulness** was great. Some good reading and thinking and things. The final week, taking a "break" to Just Sit was good.

**Work** was good. New job is great! It's fast-paced, but I'm finding it... relaxing. Still tired, though! Still lots of new stuff.

### June

I may have be a bit overindexing on the M of my [Zen HAM](#philosophy). For June, I'm going to try and focus more on Health and Art. I'll mostly take Dharma-related reading more slowly this month. When I would usually read, I might do a big sit, [shikantaza](/thinking/zen/shikantaza/)-style, [just sitting](/thinking/zen/the-just-in-just-sitting/), or make some music. Then maybe read a little afterwards.

- **Rest**
	- ✔ Continue (re)readthrough of Iain M. Banks' Culture books
- **Health**
	- Get back into it! Prioritise health over time.
	- Think about "seasonal exercising".
	- Running, on days that the weather is double digits.
	- Exercises.
- **Art**
	- Urban Sketchpomorphisation
	- Make some "melodic techno" (Feeling groovy after listening to some [TribalNeed](https://tribalneed.bandcamp.com/music). Techno is not usually my thing, but this guy is great!)
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ Continue draft of a [Spectrum of Awareness](/thinking/the-spectrum-of-awareness/) session for OMB
	- ✔ Sit with [Original Nature by Henry Shukman on the Waking Up app](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/pack/PKCC68C?code=SC541514D&share_id=60FFB824&source=content%20share) (6 sessions of 30m)
	- ✔ Read some books on Korean Zen ([some bookedmarked books](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:koreanzen/)).
- **Work**
	- ✔ Prepare [one day workshop](https://naga.co.za/workshops/2024/nztc/)

#### June end of month check-in

- **Rest**. Went pretty well. Finished reading all the Culture books.
- **Health**. Did not go so well. Couldn't get back into it.
- **Art**. Did not go so well, but I don't feel too bad about it.
- **Mindfulness**. Went well. Co-ran a session at OMB. Read a bunch of Korean Zen. Finding some peace taking a wider perspective.
- **Work**. Went well. Prepared and ran a workshop a one day workshop.

My plans for June didn't work out as... planned. The OMB session and the work workshop took up a lot of time and space, and that left me with little energy for much else. Some stuff is carrying forward.

### July

- **Health**
	- ✘ Running, on days that the weather is double digits.
	- ✔ Exercises.
	- ✘ Try a few lessons at [Riai Aikido](http://aikido.org.nz/dojo/wellington-city-aikido-dojo/).
- **Art**
	- ✔ Don't worry about it this month. Prioritise H, and M.
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ No new reading, take a break. Revisit and reflect instead. Revisit precepts, vows.
	- ✔ Just sit, Shikantaza. Sometimes, sit instead of reading or studying.
	- ✔ Revisit The Direct Approach series by Stephan Bodian on the Waking Up app.
	- ✔ House cherishing. Mindful cleaning and caring for my home.
- **Work**
	- ✔ Read Against Technoableism by Ashley Shew.

#### July end of month check-in

- **Rest**. Went pretty well.
- **Health**. Went well. Didn't get running again, but did stay active.
- **Art**. Took a break.
- **Mindfulness**. Went well. Nice to have a bit of a break from study. But deep dove into reflecting on "rest" (ahem).
- **Work**. Went well. didn't write much, but enjoyed the day-to-day.

### August

- **Rest**
	- ✘ Plan and try out some brand new recipes.
- **Health**
	- ✘ Keep up the exercising.
	- ✘ Get back into running.
- **Art**
	- ✔ Read Creative Act by Rick Rubin.
	- ✘ Read and paint from "Chinese Landscape Painting Techniques" and "Let's Try Sumi-e Painting".
	- ✘ Icons and illustrations: "Logo Design workbook", "My Icon Library", "Manual of Ornament", "Symbol".
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ Reread "Zen mind, beginner's mind".
	- ✘ Read some more Zen books.
	- ✔ Listen to "The Practice of Life" series on Waking Up from Charlotte Joko Beck.
	- ✔ Sit with my Metta playlist on Waking Up (6 sessions, 1h 43m)
	- ✘ Sit with The Headless Way playlist on Waking Up (20 sessions, 3h 23m)
	- ✔ Do some 30m sits from Adyashanti's "Sitting in Stilness" on the Waking up app.
	- ✘ Do (another) solo retreat, with a timetable for structure. 

#### August end of month check-in

- Oof. Bit of a rough month, mostly from stressing about Roxy. 
- I'm feeling a bit of fatigue. Definitely some physical fatigue from not sleeping well. but also mental fatigue from this long stretch of one-topic study. My practice feels pretty alive and fresh, after some updates. But the study feels stretched. Perhaps a year is a bit too long, and a quarter is a better horizon for me. Or running with the seasons. Or, like other things, have a bit more of a plan from the start. Light structure, with room to wiggle.

### September

- **Rest**
	- Plan and try out some brand new recipes.
- **Health**
	- ✘ Get back into exercising.
	- ✘ Get back into running.
	- ✘ Join an evening exercise club. Aikido, Qi Gong, dance?
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ Prepare Beginner's Mind session for OMB for 2nd October.
	- ✔ Focus on the practical part of practice more than theory.
		- Limit, but not stop, reading.
		- Think about midday sits.
	- ✔ Sit with The Headless Way playlist on Waking Up (20 sessions, 3h 23m)
	- ✘ Listen to and do [Journaling for Insight](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/pack/PKE9D64?code=SC541514D&share_id=DC29C9ED&source=content%20share) on Waking Up
	- ✘ Do some reading on action and ethics and values
		- Bearing Witness by Bernie Glassman
		- The Bhodisattava Vow by G K Gyatso
		- The Mind of Clover by Robert Aitken
		- Where is the Way by Hsing Yun
		- Twelve steps to a compassionate life by Karen Armstrong
	- ✘ Do (another) solo retreat, with a timetable for structure. 
	- ✔ Co-facilitate [OMB one-day silent retreat](https://onemindfulbreath.substack.com/p/spring-meditation-retreat).
	- ✔ Facilitate ["Quiz Night" session for OMB](/thinking/question-time-quiz-night-session-for-omb/).
- **Art**
	- ✘ Sketchy character. Get back into some kind of drawing. Maybe more Guyz.
	- ✔ Play around with the Medeli MK1 37 Key Mini Keyboard.

#### September end of month check-in

It went okay! Read a bit about death and it made me feel better. Reading a Joan Tollifson book made me feeling (more) at peace with the (im)perfection of where I am and with how things are. I didn't do some of the things on my Mindfulness list, but I did others, so that's fine. Health was fine this month, but I didn't get back into exercising at all. Enjoyed helping run a retreat. Feeling good about OMB.

### October

- **Rest**
	- ✘ See a handful of Jazz Fest shows.
	- ✔ Skreme! Sketch (out); Read (in); Meditate (both).
- **Health**
	- ✘ Get back into exercising.
	- ✘ Get back into running.
- **Mindfulness**
	- ✔ "Bathe in the backlog." No new games or books. Just enjoy what's there already.
	- ✔ Retreatvenings. A weekend away will be difficult this month, so plan one "retreat" evening a week instead.
	- ✔ Listen to a themed series on Waking Up. Maybe koans again, Sitting in Stillness - Adyashanti, my The Headless Way playlist, Original Nature - Henry Shukman.
- **Art**
	- ✔ Start learning to read music.
	- ✔ Play around with Keyboard more.
	- ✘ Sketch some bridges.

#### October end of month check-in

Well, that went... okay. I didn't manage to get back into proper excerising of running, but I have been doing my usual Walking A Lot, so that's good. Still ending up reading quite a lot, possibly because of the having a few days of holiday. Had a slightly peculiarly paradoxical experience of meeting work teammates: feeling both more connected and more separate 🤷‍♂️. Didn't get any sketching done.

### November

- **Rest**
	- Weekend away, probably retreat-ish.
- **Health**
	- Get back into running. Tis the season! Because the weather's getting warmer.
- **Art**
	- Continue learning to read music.
	- Play around with the keyboard some more.
	- Sketch some bridges.
- **Mindfulness**
	- Focus on Secular Buddhism. What is this?, After Buddhism (and the workbook), Revamp, Buddhism without beliefs, Mindful Solidarity.
	- Sit with The Way app.
	- Focus on cultivating clarity in my daily practice.
	- Revisit [My (applied) philosophy](/thinking/my-applied-philosophy/).

### December

- **Rest**
    - Read The Book of Symbols.
    - Start reading 365 Tao.
- **Health**
- **Art**
	- Read and paint from "Chinese Landscape Painting Techniques" and "Let's Try Sumi-e Painting".
		- Icons and illustrations: "Logo Design workbook", "My Icon Library", "Manual of Ornament", "Symbol".
		- Research ensō and related art.
		- Dharma and dharma-adjacent sketches: "Illustrating the felt experience of the dharma."
- **Mindfulness**
	- Finish the year as I started: focus on Zen.
		- Read a few books on the Heart Sutra: [Finding the Heart Sutra](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51236356-finding-the-heart-sutra); [The Heart Sutra: A Comprehensive Guide to the Classic of Mahayana Buddhism](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18339881-the-heart-sutra); [The Other Shore](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34127174-the-other-shore).
	- Write up guidance for a 20m sit and a 20m walk for the next OMB retreat (mid-February).
	- Do a remix of a few of my favourite chapters from the Tao Te Ching, using the Le Guin one as a base.
	- Think about next year's Theme.

### Maybe next year

- **Rest**
    - Non-fiction grab bag
    - Read books I've missed from some favourite authors: Tepper, Atwood, Butler.
- **Health**
	- Find some Qi Gong in Wellington to try out for a month or two.
- **Art**
	- Sketching: houseplants, cartoony capybaras.
	- Edges and outlines: people and crowds, rows of shops.
	- Art deco suns and circles and starburst and ornaments.
- **Mindfulness**
	- Plan some solo retreats, with a timetable for structure.
	- More Zen things
		- Read about the wider context of Zen (Buddhism, Daoism, Chinese thought more broadly).
		- Read some more books by Zen teachers: Charlotte Joko Beck, Pema Chödrön, Alan Watts, Toni Packer, Joan Halifax, Diane Musho Hamilton, and more.
	- Daoism deep dive.
	- Revisit The Headless Way. Read some more Douglas Harding: The Science of the 1st Person, The Turning Point, Head Off Stress.
	- Read some more nondual books, but specifically not Zen. E.g. Bodian, Adyashanti, Spira ([Being Aware of Being Aware](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Being-Aware-Essence-Meditation-ebook/dp/B01LVUV9RY)).
	- Revisit some Stoic and Cynic notes, updated [MAP](/thinking/my-applied-philosophy/).