---
layout: page
title: Theme for 2025
added: 2024-11-29
updated: 2025-06-13
---

Skip to:
* Display TOC
{:toc}

## Intro

Theme. Taste. Flavour. Theme as [stance, direction](/thinking/direction-word-salad/).

My [theme for last year](/theme/2024) was "rest". It [didn't go so well](/review/2024/#by-the-themes). However, I did pull together a bunch of different thought and stances into ["The Three Uhds" and "LSD"](#whittled-practices-to-stay-on-the-path) that I found pretty [fruitful](/thinking/fruitful/) and [useful](/thinking/useful-word-salad/).

<div markdown="1" class="boxout-light"> 
My theme for 2025 is going to (try and) be **acceptance**.<br>
I will (try and) be **more accepting of more things**.
</div>

- It's not about giving up, but it is about yielding.
- It's not about ignoring bad things, but it is about being more clear about how bad they are, or if they really are bad.
- It's aligned with the (humanistic psychologist) Carl Rogers' stance of acceptance being required for change, and with [Tara Brach's Radical Acceptance](https://www.tarabrach.com/books/radical-acceptance/) ([my notes](/notes/tara-brach/radical acceptance and its radical impact - tara brach.jpg)).
    - It's about taking care.

## Gates: WHIP

Gates for practice this year are **W**ork, **H**ealth, **I**nterests (new name for [art](/art), creative stuff, hobbies), **P**ractice.

- **W**ork
    - Write at least one thing a month
    - Talk and/or facilitate something a few times in the year
- **H**ealth
    - Keep doing lots of walking
    - Get back into more serious exercise
    - More healthy drinking and eating
    - Socialising (health is not just physical)
- <span id="interests">**I**nterests</span>
    - Drawing, maybe sketching
    - Reading
    - Music: get back into learning to play the (smol) piano
    - Cooking
    - Gardening, inside and outside
- **P**ractice.
    - Meditating, at least once a day
    - Zen still feels like a good fit, so I'm going to keep going with it. I'm using [The Way app](https://www.thewayapp.com/) for my morning sits, and [Waking Up](https://www.wakingup.com/) more generally. I still have plenty of Zen books on the (physical and virtual) shelves. I'll probably meander in and out of it a bit more this year, though.
    - Track Valued Action in daily reflections
    - One Mindful Breath stuff: Janitorial duties (IRL and online), finding facilitators, facilitating.

### Other things to maybe do

- Figuring out how I can / if I want to channel the energy from some of my patterns:
    - Poker (inquisitive, analytic)
    - Remixer
    - Pragmatic ([useful, helpful, fruitful, etc](/thinking/useful-word-salad/))
- Have another go around at [koan practice](/thinking/zen/zen-koans/). Dig deeper into [shikantaza](/thinking/zen/shikantaza/) / [just sitting](/thinking/zen/the-just-in-just-sitting/).

### Self-fulfilling activity

- Just do the thing, nothing else.
- No "in order to". Do the thing for the simple delight of doing it.
- Free of goals and outcomes, like play.

## Valued Action: POCK

Continued recommitment to aligning my actions with my values. Four points making a square, with acceptance in the middle, are POCK: **P**atient, **O**pen, **C**lear, **K**ind. These aren't the only things that are important. They are the ones I want to focus on.

- [Kind(ness) is the root for me](/thinking/valued-action-for-january-2024/), the thing that underlies it all.
- Patient is the most important one for Acceptance. It's the thing I'm worst at. So... this year I'm trying to be more patient with my impatience. This is a bit of [a paradox](/thinking/paradoxes/) conceptually, but not experientially.
- POCK is partly aspirational, and partly a lens to examine deeply who I am, and the ways in which I don't to live up to the values. "Slowly, painfully, reconcile to life."
- It's admittedly a bit circular and self-referential. The Acceptance Practice is using POCK as gates to Acceptance.

### Two chonky things to apply these to

- Restlessness
    - Accepting it when I can, and noticing it when I can't. Waiting a moment.
    - Applying Redirects (Implementation Intention / habit type things) in an Antifragile way: avoiding things that don't work, rather than looking for things that do.
    - Linking to hiding, avoidance
    - Considering Non-restlessness, refraining from restlessness, being more still
- Roxy’s old age
    - What I can do
    - What I can't do

## Practices to stay on the Path

These are whittled version of practices, using [my pattern / skillset](/thinking/my-pattern-skillset-research-remix-replay/) of Research, Remix, Reply.

- Catch it early? [LSD](/thinking/lsd/) (Listen (centre, edges, changes), Slow your tempo, doubt)
- Catch it late? [The three uhds](/thinking/the-three-uhds/) (Should, Could, Good)
    - Let go of the idea that "this isn't it"

I also really like [RAIN](/thinking/wider-rain-practice/) (Recognise, Allow, Investigate, Nurture), but... I find it very difficult to do the Nurture step. For now at least, other practices have a bit more traction for me.

## Tracker

A short record of what I’ve done, and what I plan to do next.

I’m aiming for a specific topic for each month, to keep myself focused.

### January

Focus on the Patience of [POCK](#valued-action-pock), the patience aspect of Acceptance.

- Work
    - ✔ ~~Write at least one article~~ ([A human-centred process is more important than an AI-tool-centred product](https://human-centred.nz/2025/01/30/a-human-centred-process-is-more-important/))
    - Make a plan for talks this year
- Health
    - ✔ ~~Stretches~~
- Interests
    - ✔ ~~Do some research for (distant) Japan trip~~
    - ✔ ~~Tidy up the entranceway. Shoes!~~
    - Rethink home office layout
    - ✔ ~~Draw some snail circles~~
    - ✔ ~~Zen Aesthetic~~
- Practice
    - ✔ ~~Read Patience book~~
    - ✔ ~~Dig into [letting go of "this isn't it"](/thinking/notes-from-joan-tollifson-books-and-articles/)~~
    - ✔ ~~Dig into [tension, energy, of restlessness](/thinking/tension/)~~
    - ✔ ~~Decide on two sessions to pitch between now and June. Check back in [Ideas for OMB sessions](/thinking/Ideas-for-omb-sessions/)~~.

#### End of month review (January)

Roxy's sleep has tanked hard in the past few weeks, and it's really messing with my sleep too. "Sundowner syndrome" ([in humans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sundowning) and [in dogs](https://www.akc.org/expert-advice/health/dog-dementia/)]), apparently, pretty common with brain-related decline. It's pretty rough.

- **Work.** Snuck in a blog post at the last minute! Tried doing some Patience-related things at work, going well!
- **Health.** Okay la, Slowly getting back into it. Bit of a dip in walking over the break, but back into now.
- **Interests.** Did a whack of [Japan-related research](/japan/), then realised it was stressing me out, so took a pause. Still enjoying Libby: I like the surprise when something I put a hold on weeks ago appears in my inbox. Dipping in and out of video games, but not finding much that feels fun to play.
- **Practice.** Building up pace again for more Zen reading and sitting. Having a bit of a flurry of writing. Using it as a way of iteratively working through ideas. Still sitting almost every morning, and some evenings. Doing... okay with Patience. Not bad, but not good either.

Plan for February: keep on keepin' on. Just chipping away at things and not pushing too hard.

### February

Continue to focus on the Patience of [POCK](#valued-action-pock), the patience aspect of Acceptance.

- Work
    - ✔ ~~Write some CFP submissions~~
    - ✔ ~~Write at least one article~~
    - ✔ ~~Make a plan for talks this year~~
- Health
    - ✔ ~~Morning exercises~~
    - ✔ ~~Start running again~~
    - ✖ ~~"Walking Up" - going for brisk, hilly, walks and listening to some Waking Up series~~
- Interests
    - ✔ ~~De-rock garden and deck~~
    - ✔ ~~A few new Ableton tracks~~
- Practice
    - ✔ ~~Finish first draft of [Singular purpose / obsession / calling](/thinking/singular-purpose-obsession-calling/)~~
    - ✔ ~~Make some notes on death and pain~~
    - ✔ ~~[Write up notes](/thinking/easing-the-nervous-system-by-kelly-boys/) on Kelly Boys [Meeting Emotions](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/course/COAF002?code=SC541514D&share_id=73292B02&source=content%20share) and [Meeting Thoughts](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/course/CO92D29?code=SC541514D&share_id=34149210&source=content%20share) session from her [Easing the Nervous System series](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/pack/PKAC84D?code=SC541514D&share_id=4A52731F&source=content%20share) on Waking Up.~~
    - ✖ ~~Write an extended version of "this, and not-this" from [Spaciousness, openness, and not-this](/thinking/spaciousness-and-openness-and-not-this/).~~
        - ~~This, not-this, the nonduality of both. Space. Sounds, sensations, thoughts.~~
        - ~~And: the asymmetry of the polarities.~~
    - ✔ ~~Listen to [Pain Without Suffering](https://dynamic.wakingup.com/pack/PK16D37?code=SC541514D&share_id=9FB49AD6&source=content%20share) on Waking Up~~
    - ✖ ~~Think about moon viewing around 13th Feb. See [Lunar Calendar](https://www.timeanddate.com/moon/phases/@2186223).~~
    - ✔ ~~[Notice what poles I'm using](/thinking/tension/#gathered-notes), when there's high energy~~
    - ✔ ~~Write up relationship reflections~~

#### End of month review (February)

- **Work.** Managed to get two blog posts out, about Design Systems. One pitch almost done.
- **Health.** Good! Walking a lot. Alternating exercising and running. Eating and drinking a bit more healthily.
- **Interests.** To my surprise, a few [Ableton tracks](/2025/02/#musicking) popped out. Otherwise quiet. Saw some Fringe shows. 
- **Practice.** Read a few books, [wrote quite a lot](/2025/02/#thinking). Much like last month: still sitting almost every morning, and some evenings; doing pretty good with Patience.

### March

Feels like this month the **Open** part of POCK will be important, so I'm going to focus on that.

Something like yield too. Like bend, bear. Using softness, sensitivity and calmness. Keeping things as much intact as possible for everyone.

- Work
    - ✔ ~~Revisit [coaching questions](https://human-centred.nz/change-and-motivation/#coach-like-questions)~~
    - ✔ ~~Pitch for MenderCon~~
    - ✖ ~~Pitch for UXA~~
- Health
    - ✔ ~~Keep on keepin' on with morning exercises and running~~
- Interests
    - ✔ ~~At least one Ableton track a week~~
        - Possibly Cthulhu Critters
    - ✖ ~~Rethink home office layout~~
    - ✔ ~~Tidy up [Musicking page](/music/)~~
    - ✖ ~~Get some new houseplants~~
- Practice
    - ✔ ~~Revisit The Headless Way, especially [The Pointing Experiment](/thinking/the-headless-way-session-for-one-mindful-breath/#-pointing-experiment) and "look for yourself at zero distance".~~
    - ✔ ~~Finish notes on [How to Be Sick](/thinking/how-to-be-sick/)~~
    - ✔ ~~Remix a(nother) chapter of Tao Te Ching – [unity, lowness, yielding, softness](http://localhost:4000/thinking/tao-te-ching-notes-unity-lowness-yielding-softness/)~~
    - ✖ ~~A realign and remix (of [Valued Action: POCK](#valued-action-pock)?) after some big life changes?~~
    - ✖ ~~Consider framing the Valued Actions as questions, somewhat like koans~~
    - ✔ ~~Write an updated, one year version, of my [Notes from six months of studying and practicing Zen](/thinking/zen/notes-from-six-months-of-studying-and-practicing-zen/): [Reflections on a-year-and-change with Zen](/thinking/zen/reflections-on-a-year-and-change-with-zen/)~~
    - ✔ ~~With an open approach: where is my path taking me, given incoming OMBCC exit?~~

#### End of month review (March)

- **Work.** Okay la. Got in a pitch. No blog posts.
- **Health.** Pretty good. But also: sore knees.
- **Interests.** Started well, tailed off. Six tracks, not bad!
- **Practice.** Very varied reading. Quite a lot of writing, word salads. Found One Bright Pearl helpful. Did okay with Valued Action.

### April

Feels like **Open** will be the POCK focus again. Open to possibility. Don't-know mind.

- Work
    - ✔ ~~Prep talk and discussion for [April Digital Accessibility Discussion Group](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7315596480436756481/)~~
- Health
    - ✔ ~~Keep on keepin' on with morning exercises and running~~
- Interests
    - ✔ ~~Make a bunch more [tracks](/music/2025/)~~
- Practice
    - ✔ ~~Read some more Zen books~~
    - ✔ ~~Remix a(nother) chapter of Tao Te Ching: [lowness, paradoxes, water](/thinking/tao-te-ching-notes-lowness-paradoxes-water/)~~
    - ✖ ~~Playfulness, like the waves are a playful expression of the ocean~~

#### End of month review (April)

- **Work.** Talked and had a discussion about [Accessibility Ready](https://human-centred.nz/2025/04/10/accessibility-ready/)
- **Health.** Pretty good. But had one week "off".
- **Interests.** Two more tracks!
- **Practice.** Bit low key this month, but: did read and write a little; did really well with the Open of POCK ☺️.

### May

POCK focus: **Patience**. Taking it slowly. Not-rushing. Noticing when I go a bit turbo (which is connected strongly to [Traits](/thinking/traits/) and [Tworaits](/thinking/tworaits/)).

- Work
    - Pitch for id24 ([CFP](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1_N3_FQ8rcYbR6bhraKVcb6DVv0eqs5PfuvFrzbFyE8c/viewform?edit_requested=true) closes 31/05)
        - ✔ ~~A11y Ready~~
        - ✔ ~~Three knots of accessibility talk pitch~~
        - ✖ ~~Privacy talk pitch, dig through [my bookmarks on privacy](https://pinboard.in/search/u:maxbarners?query=privacy)~~
    - ✖ ~~Mend, maintain, applied to a11y~~
- Health
    - ✔ ~~Keep on keepin' on with morning exercises and running~~
    - ✔ ~~Be sick for a week 😒~~
- Interests
    - Kawaii critters
        - ✔ ~~Practice from book one~~
        - Practice from book two
    - ✖ ~~Do a lot of sketching for International Urban Sketchers Week 1–7 May~~
- Practice
    - ✖ ~~Write up a Privacy / Private page~~
    - ✔ ~~Research: [Sanbo Zen](/thinking/zen/sanbo-zen/~~
    - ✔ ~~Research: [Samu](/thinking/zen/sanbo-zen/#related-samu-the-dynamic-expression-of-zen-practice)~~
    - ✔ ~~[Void](/art/2025-05-void/) center / Headless Way sketching – eddies and sworls and things~~
    - ✔ ~~Brush pen ensos and dots and dashes~~
    - ✔ ~~[No escape / rock bottom](/thinking/no-no-no/)~~
    - ✔ ~~Headless Way mini-retreat 1/?~~
    - ✔ ~~Step down from OMB and ABET things~~
    - ✖ ~~Revisit TMWT notes, focusing on care, kindness, BGT~~

#### End of month review (May)

- **Work.** Pretty good. Got in some talk pitches. Getting back into it after a holiday was a bit rough.
- **Health.** Stop running with the turn in the weather, but upped exercises and walking to try and balance a bit. Eating and drinking a little unhealthily for a week or two.
- **Interests.** Okay la. Did a tiny bit of kawaii critters.
- **Practice.** Pretty good. Morning sits solid. Want to restart evening sits. Okay on the P of POCK.

## June

POCK focus: **Clear**. Being more clear on why I'm doing what I'm doing. Pausing to clarify.

WHIP focus: **Health**. Fitness for fun, enjoying the energy.

- Work
    - ✖ ~~Pitch for A11yCamp ([CFP](https://a11ycamp.com.au/call-for-presentations/) closes 13/06)~~
- Health
    - Keep on keepin' on with morning exercises
    - Try and watch my eating and drinking a bit more
- Interests
    - Jiggle new MVP mixes
    - Kawaii critters
        - ✔ ~~Practice from book two~~
        - cosmic horror elements
        - anthropomorphising stuff
    - Fuzzy edge circles, no crispy lines
    - Find a new community (Kung Fu or Tai Chi or Aikido, dancing)
- Practice
    - Reconsider: everything is your main practice
    - Consider: Challenge vs Difficulty vs Constraints
    - Revisit: [antifragile](/thinking/antifragile/)
    - Write up a [Toki Pona](https://tokipona.org/) notes page
    - Consider: punk rock Zen / Zen in unexpected places, in/of pop culture

## Options for later

- Work
    - Three knots of accessibility article (if talk accepted)
- Interests
    - [Steal Like An Artist](https://austinkleon.com/steal/) from [Hamonshu](https://theartofzen.org/mori-yuzan-and-hamonshu-japanese-wave-designs/)
    - Fantastical Cross-Sections
    - Theme for a Quarter: visualisation. Sketchnotes, icons, iconography, ornaments, logos.
    - Liminal wet spots: rivers and rivermouths mostly, but also coasts.
    - Paint more enso
    - Learning to play piano
    - Reading, fiction: [toreadmaybe + fiction Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:fiction/)
- Practice
    - Use 2&times2s more
    - Things to include in Practice of MAP
        - Having more alignment with the bright, playful, activity of being alive
        - Having both/and more explicit
        - [playfulness](/thinking/playful-word-salad/), being bold
        - Having brave, experimental, mindset: tinker, try, see, decide
        - Yielding: transforming the relationship by redirecting/diverting, with softness, connection, sensitivity
    - Negative Space, Negative Capability
    - Gateless Gate, Uncovering
    - Reconsider: longer sits, sesshin

### Reading lists

- Fiction: [holds at the Library](https://libbyapp.com/shelf/holds)
- Nonfiction: [toreadmaybe + nonfiction Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:nonfiction/)
- Buddhism (and related, like mindfulness): [toreadmaybe + buddhism Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:buddhism/)
- Zen (and releted, like Daoism): [toreadmaybe + zen Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:zen/)
- Philosophy: [toreadmaybe + philosophy Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:philosophy/)
- Stoicism: [toreadmaybe + stoicism Pinboard bookmarks](https://pinboard.in/u:maxbarners/t:toreadmaybe/t:stoicism/)
